>> Steve Kinney: We're gonna talk
about this thing called Test Doubles,
which is the overarching umbrella for
mocks, and spies, and stubs.
And a bunch of other things where
honestly, if I wasn't preparing for
a course, I would forget
the difference between them.
Generally speaking, it's a larger
concept where there will be no quiz on
the vocabulary afterwards, right?
Because generally speaking, other than
their appearance and the method names,
they're all variations
in the same concept.
If you tell any of the people who center
their whole personality around testing
that I send any of this, I'll deny it
despite the fact that the video exists.
But generally speaking,
the terminology is not that important,
all right,
as long as you conceptually get it.
So the general idea is like, you're just
supposed to test stuff in isolation.
Yeah, you know what,
turns out our apps tend to call APIs.
All right,
they tend to sometimes involve time.
Right, sometimes they involve console log,
or fetch, or something along those lines.
Or sometimes they involve
a third party library.
Honestly, I don't need to
test other people's code.
What I need to do is make sure, again,
the whole thing is if I change my code,
does it still work, right?
So sometimes we can't control everything,
and sometimes you wanna see,
okay, this was supposed to call alert,
fetch, whatever, right?
All right, did the thing get called
with the thing it was supposed to get
called with is maybe the end result
of what you're looking for, right?
Yes, it would be great if all code was
what they say, idempotent, which is,
thing comes in, return value comes out,
no side effects whatsoever.
But modifying the DOM is a side effect,
constant log into the side effect,
everything important is a side effect,
right?
So that's not really
the reality we live in, so
sometimes we have to kind of
worry about the outside world.
As somebody said earlier in this course,
if you get carried away with all
this stuff, you will just make a bunch
of worthless tests, congratulations.
Or we saw before, we can have random
values from an ID generator or
rolling the dice, so
on and so forth, right?
Sometimes we just wanna hold
a few things steady, right?
Again, all of these superpowers
I'm about to show you should,
with great power comes
great responsibility.
Do not get carried away, and
I'm happy to answer a thousand
questions on where those lines are.
I will warn you,
most of the answers will be unsatisfying.
Because it's like, if you would like
to hear me say, it depends a lot,
I will happily do that.
Or if you think about,
it's a game of trade-offs, If you could
get a perfectly pristine version of
your back end quickly in place for
one test and then reset it back to
its pristine state for the next test.
And that that wasn't a pain in the butt,
to wire into your test week,
yeah, do that, go it,
right, that sounds great.
Tell me how you did it, right?
Or maybe you do need to simulate
the network requests, right?
Cuz also, that also involves you
controlling the entire server too.
Because let me tell you how many
times both, from incidents or
also my test break in staging, because
the back end team broke an API in staging,
right, now my tests are failing.
And so, yes,
obviously there's a value in that realism.
But also, if my tests are now failing cuz
I made a CSS change because something
else happened in staging,
that's not great either.
So there's a time and
a place for all these things.
Or you wanna run the test without
having to spin up the server,
cuz again, spinning up a server and
taking it down for
the test is also extra
things that can go wrong.
Or time, and
there I make the same joke again.
So basically,
a test double is the broad umbrella for
any kinda simulated, fake thing that
you are using in your tests, right?
And like I said, the differences
are not particularly important,
but these are the names
that they tend to go by.
A mock is, again,
faking an external thing.
A spy is the ability to,
kind of watch over a function and
see what it got called with,
and all those things, right?
In case, maybe your function
isn't returning something, but
it's calling a built-in or
library function.
And you just wanna make sure that, did it
do the thing it was supposed to do cuz I
don't have a return value to see here?
And again, if you're thinking,
couldn't I just pass in values like that
dependency injection thing
Steve was talking about?
That is the right answer,
put it in your head right now.
This is like, use it when you need it,
but be very careful whether or
not you need it.
Then the other important part is,
there are a bunch of ways to put
things back after the test, and
I'm gonna tell you right now,
just to worry about the last one, right?
So let's say you decide you
are going to mock out fetch, right?
Restore would put the original
fetch back in place, right?
You can always mock it out again.
Reset will just keep that existing mock,
but then put it back to its place or
clear, keep track of
everything was recording.
But you know what restore will do,
the other two as well, right?
And so, if you don't know which one
to use, yeah, could I lecture you for
another 30 minutes on
the difference between them?
I absolutely could.
If you don't know which one to use,
just use restore,
wait till you have a reason for
the other two, right?
And I will answer a million questions
about them if we have them, but
before I lecture you on things,
let's just,
most of the time restore will get
done what you wanted it to do.
And you can call that on a given function,
or more importantly, again,
I'm giving the answers right now,
you can just call it on all of them.
So what I will tend to do a lot of times
is, if I do need to fake some stuff,
that's where you can do it
before each test, right?
Do yourself, put everything
back the way it was afterwards.
Why do all these exist then?
Well, friends,
before we had modern test runners,
all your tests ran in the same process.
And one test could mock out a bunch of
stuff, forget to clean up after itself,
and then later tests would then use
those polluted versions of everything.
These days, most modern tests are now,
if you know that you were running old,
old stuff at work or whatever,
then the stuff is more important to you.
But V test and JS predominantly
have test isolation, which is,
each one of those tests runs
in an isolated environment.
The risk of spillover is a lot less,
right?
But like, again, under the hood, so
there was this years and
years ago, I'm talking a decade.
Yeah, there was this mocking and
stubbing library called Sinon, S-I-N-O-N.
You know what V test uses under the hood?
Sinon, same stuff.
It's like none of this stuff
has actually changed, right?
And so if you see Sinon on your code base,
guess what?
All of this stuff applies,
because this is just a wrapper around
literally that library, right?
I think there will be occasional times
where if we hover over stuff in TeleSense,
you'll see it peek out.
So the good news is, yeah, a lot of the
stuff doesn't matter because that expect
stuff we've seen that's Chai,
which is again,
a over a decade-old assertion library,
Sinon as a decade old mocking library.
Say, JS and V test,
just wrap over them, right?
I think JS wraps over Jasmine,
which is a 15-year-old test runner.
So that's why when I say this stuff,
the differences don't really matter
cuz a lot of times they are very similar
in the way that they approach things.